A Lesson From Pokemon  
---

Pokemon is a game I have played for almost my entire life. I vividly remember getting Pokemon Red Version and a teal Gameboy Color for Christmas a long time ago, and it is hard to imagine that game would have such an impact on the culture of recent generations and my own life. Recently my friends and I have reignited our interest in the game, and I just beat Pokemon Leaf Green by catching all 150 (non-event) pokemon and beating the Elite Four. Thus making me some kind of legit pokemon master for the first time in my life, after so many years of Pokemon. So without further ado, I would like to share a life lesson I have learned from Pokemon over the years.

This lesson is about the Grind. Pokemon, like some other games and life, sometimes requires a lot of repetitive actions. Things like running in circles in the same spot for hours looking to catch that one damn pokemon. Looking at you Kangastan and Chansey... And beating the Elite Four again and again in order to level up weaker pokemon so they evolve. Games like Pokemon crystalize the idea of the Grind, making it clear and easy to see progress, however incremental, and making it just flashy and fun enough you want to keep going.

However, flashy, fun and clear NOT how progress is in real life. It can be hard to see yourself make progress in day to day life, and it is rarely fun or amusing to do. The Grind makes it seem like it is there to make you stop doing what you are doing and start hating it instead. But what Pokemon has taught me, and perhaps I am just growing up, but studying, programming, practicing instruments, reading, working out all do have moments you can see progress, they can be fun to do. Moreover, Pokemon taught me an attitude towards the Grind, that it is necessary, not evil, and completely doable. I think before I beat Pokemon, I saw the Grind and turned away. For some reason I was perhaps afraid of wasting time, or failing, or never making it to the end. But grinding through Pokemon was anything but a waste of time for me. It showed that the Grind is just a part of success, there was a clear goal for Pokemon. That is getting 150 Pokemon and beating the Elite Four. And there is a need for clear goals in your life to march towards. Yes it is still boring at times, yes it is frustrating. But the end result, as you set it, has to be something you want very badly. As for me, well now I am a fucking Pokemon master. 
